well howdy there internet people is Bo
again so today we're going to talk about
foreign languages and an old army
training film and what we can learn from
it I speak a few languages and when I
hear somebody struggling in English I
will switch to their native language if
I know it
maybe I speak that language better than
they speak English and it can aid in
communication this is something that I
think activists and especially academics
really need to pay attention to because
at times I see a lot where people refuse
to speak the language of those they're
talking to if it doesn't matter how well
your argument is constructed if the
person you're talking to doesn't
understand the basic terminology you're
using it's not going to go anywhere
sometimes to get a point across it might
be better to speak their language so to
speak even if that means using
terminology that in your circles is no
longer used or maybe slightly
reinforcing what may seem to be
reinforcing a negative concept to weed
out a much more negative concept now
years ago like 15 years ago I saw this
army training film and it wasn't was
ancient that it was set right after
Vietnam and I think that's when it was
made I'm sure the first copies of this
one reel-to-reel but it's a film
designed to help a new lieutenant talk
to his troops and kind of get the lay of
the land now what you need to know
before I start talking about this is
that a second lieutenant walking into
the army the very first day he reports
for duty he outranks men
have been in for 15 years and seen
combat so there's a there's a gap
there's a knowledge gap now a good first
sergeant will train his officers without
them ever knowing it but that takes time
this is that first day and that first
day in walks that lieutenant he's
holding nothing but his orders and a
Bible because he is the all-american boy
and as he's walking into the building
some of his troops see that that's
important in a minute he goes inside and
he winds up talking to the captain and
the captain is given him a list of stuff
he needs to do and kind of offhandedly
says to somebody else that the first
sergeant is not real receptive of a new
grenade launcher the Army's given the
Army's getting the m203 and he still
likes the m79 and the lieutenant he's
like well you know I was trained on that
on the 203 now I'll go talk to the First
Sergeant and explain you know the specs
on it to them and the captain being a
apparently funny man kind of looks at
him was like yeah I go do that you know
now what you need to know if you know
nothing about the military and I don't
want to over overstate the importance of
the first sergeant
but he's God He is God within that
company so the idea of any second
lieutenant explaining anything to to
first sergeant is funny to start with
and they played this up the first scene
is second lieutenant walks in and
there's the first surgeon sitting at his
desk squirrel in his coffee does a good
job of showing his ribbons and he's got
a rack and on top of it he's got a CIB
with a wreath and two stars in English
that man that means this man has been
around he has seen some things okay
the implication was that he was in
Vietnam and Korea
and there's a second lieutenant he's
like you know see here the specs on it
you know it's it's objectively a better
weapon it's gonna make us more effective
in combat more effective in combat Hasan
you know a lot about combat first
surgeon sets his coffee down walks out
of his own office conversation is over
nothing is accomplished second scene
they reset it
lieutenant walks in hey top you know I'm
new to the company you were in Vietnam
right yes so we're getting the m203 how
would you have used that Darryl Vietnam
how would you use that you know with the
benefits and the drawbacks of it how
would you use that because it's not in
the manual well she got well it is
useful to have that soldier holding his
rifle and a grenade launcher at the same
time and he starts to explain how to use
it and at the same time he's convincing
himself unintentionally maybe it's not
such a horrible device
you know statistics and specifications
they can get to facts sometimes a little
bit of fiction can't get to the truth
something we might want to keep in mind
after that he starts working through the
list second lieutenant and his the first
task comment is that he's got to give a
a briefing to his platoon on VD that's
STDs so scene one he walks in and he
starts giving the briefing and
everybody's just kind of rolling their
eyes what does this guy know about it he
came walking in with a Bible and here he
is first first day on the job telling us
not to do what we as soldiers of the
time like to go do complete failure no
communication second scene he goes back
to that first sergeant hey who's mended
the medic the most for VD First Sergeant
laughs he's like that probably become a
corporal clap and so he they call it in
corporal clap and they give him the
training materials and he goes and gives
it and everybody's laughing because he
has stories he has a way to relate it he
speaks the same language and most
importantly he's the right messenger
sometimes it may not be that you're
constructing a poor argument it may be
that you're just not the person that can
deliver it to the audience I had a lot
of people ask me why I didn't say
anything about toxic femininity number
one I can barely say the word I sound
like Trump trying to say anonymous
number two I'm not the right messenger
why on earth would anybody listen to me
on that subject
now that film was 40 40 years ago I was
probably when it was made maybe 50 but
it still holds a lot of truth the way
something is presented is oftentimes
more important than the information
presented in it now I know that's not
good that's not the way things should be
but it's the way things are think about
the the recent incident with the kid and
the make America great hat and the
native the way that was presented
initially it looks one way the way it
was presented as more and more
viewpoints came out it changed it
altered so you got to be leery about
jumping on any viral video right out of
the gate because there's always more to
it now the relook at it the the Catholic
school boys are not the heroes of that
story by any means but it may be
possible that the little smirking kid
despite that look on his face he may not
have been the villain either it's it's
one of those things we're probably never
going to know because it looks when you
watch multiple viewpoints it looks like
there's a whole lot of stuff that
happened there where one group thought
it was somebody else that said something
and that wow the whole thing was blown
out of proportion the reaction wasn't
because of the message because of the
language used when it was first
circulated
and it created this this flurry of means
and most of them are of the same vein
they are propaganda more than anything
you know I loved watching people I knew
that I watched share means glorifying
the police response at Standing Rock all
of a sudden
sharing memes talking about you know how
could they dishonor this native where
were you when when they were getting hit
with tear gas messaging is important and
the way things are perceived a lot of
times it can be more important than the
facts as far as the reaction that it
generates it's just something that we
need to be conscious of especially if we
are in a battle against fake narratives
fake emergencies
we're fighting that we can't succumb to
the same things anyway it's just about
y'all have a good night